03/04
======
1. Consolidated Fish depth, Fish GPS, Top GPS, rssi, USBL reported
distance into a single plot.
2. Need to work on TOP GPS Node to dump data into a topic; and test.
3. Need to work on IMS for sync packet and do air test.
4. Need to schedule Lake test (deep water for Top); designed tests:
a) Test1: Vary fish's depth and compare real depth and reported
distance. In this experiment, Top and Fish should locate at the same
spot on the lake, while Fish vertically drop to the deep water and
move back.
b) Fix the Top above deep water (with anchor in the lake), and
navigate the Fish away from the Top.
c) Definitely need fish finder to scan the bottom of the lake to avoid
obstacles (so that the Fish won't be tangled).

5. Need to work on web server to plot heart rate.

03/24
======
1. Start from moring, I tried to process data from field experiment
(did yesterday), and it took a while to find out that I should
transfer my data to a linux machine to process it, since my Mac
doesn't have ROS2 installed.

2. Phone conversation is meant for quick update

I called Srihari to chat a bit before the robotics group meeting at
10:00, since he instructed me to call him before the meeting. I meant
to have a quick conversation, in case he has some `special' instructions
for me bofore I went on to report my progress during the meeting. He
started to ask detail things. At one point he asked my why I bought a
parallel desktop (software) to install Linux instead of using the
linux machines in our department. I reponsed that the department linux
machines are not accessible from outside. He said that shouldn't be
the case coz somebody else have been using some of these department
machines from another university. I then told him that I asked around
and didn't make it successful. He said Hongpeng should be using the
department machine and why I didn't ask Hongpeng. I responed that
Hongpeng was not in my lab and I asked the guys in my lab. For
example, I asked Zhuangzhuang and he suggested a way which didn't work
for me becauze Zhuangzhuang is living on campus. We spent about 5
minutes talking about it while I realized that I wouldn't have time to
complete drawing some plots before the meeting. I was a bit unpleasant
in speaking about the issue.

I then had to change my plan. I thought I at least should finish my
slides. I didn't have time. During the meeting, I showed no data or
plots, I just reported what I have done and showed the pictures that I
took when I was doing the experiments on the lake.


I asked myself why I was unpleasant. I told my wife that this was not
the first time. I was unplesant on Saturday when Srihari were checking
my code during a online meeting, which went on for more than 1 hour
while I expected it only lasting for at most 30 min. I had a math
class schedule at 8:00pm and we finished the meeting around 8:30pm. I
had to cancel my math teaching.

The answer was that things went out-of-expectation. For example, I
expected the Saturday's meeting to be short, Srihari prolonged it. My
schedule to to teach class at 8:00pm. When he asked me to have a phone
called at 6:47pm, I never expected the meeting to last till
8:30pm. When he asked me about using the department linux machines, I
tried to quickly respond him with casual answer and expect to move to
our next more meaningful topic. Unfortunately, he caught that my
reponse was not correct -- how could it be that "these machinese are
not accessible from outside", since he clearly knew somebody is using
these machines from outside.

I wasn't not so serious about my response. And at the point, when he
questioned me, I didn't think carefully and just stated causually
that it didn't work for me. Again, I was in the mode of giving an
casual answer and moving on. That's a huge mistake.

The real reason that I didn't use the department machines was that
these machines were not installed with ROS2, and we are not allowed to
freely install software on these machines. For installing ROS2, we
need Ubuntu 22 system, and these machines are mostly operating system
Ubuntu 20 (or 18). When I took the robotics class, everybody tried to
use the department machine, and later realized it's better to use
their own computer since the department machines inccur too many
restrictions to work with ease. We tried very hard to use the
department machine and they failed us. But it's not the department's
fault, it's the technology we need is too advanced.

Anyways, my reflection is don't going into details during a phone
conversation if it's not 100% necessary. Just schedule another meeting
to discuss details.

"Hi Srihari, I am calling you to give a quick update. We can schedule a
meeting to discuss the details. If you ask me details now, I might not be
able to have the accurate answer for you. btw, my wife is waiting for me
to help the kids with homework." 

That's all.











