1. Why was I late for 20 mintues for the 3:00 pm meeting?

* Being Late
---------------
The other day Ioannis was saying that in the US, if you are late for something, all people who are waiting for you might seriously consider it as being disrespectful.

Clearly, I am having a habit of being late. It's time to make a change, maybe.

I was telling myself that I had a meeting at 3pm. I never came up with the answer that I had to set out before 2:40pm. I needed 13 minutes to drive, and 7 minutes to find a parking spot.

But before that I needed to wash my hair and change clothings. I was meeting with Matt at 2:15pm to push code to the server. I found the android phone could not upload files to the server via https. I started to debug and wasted sometime there. My wife reminded me that I had to eat lunch at 2:40pm.

The whole morning I was working on robotics. I made some progress, but not to the extend I had expected. I tried to debug with the USBL modem until I found that the raspberry pi had to be connected to a monitor display. I didn't have a proper display at home.

Overall, I tried to finish things in about 5 hours, but it turned out these things requires 10 hours. I might be able to finish them in 5 hours if I was super focous and efficient. But the truth is that I am not always that focus. For example, I spent sometime read Strunk & White.

So why did I want to read Strunk & White in between my work. Because I wanted to have a break after I finished the Chrony setup with GPS. During that break I read a bit Strunk and White.


* The Right Answer
-------------------
Someone might come to tell me: don't read that damn thing and focus on your coding! My response would be: No. Reading that damn thing was the only joy out of the 5 hours' work.

The right answer is: having the right estimation for work.

If you dont estimate your work properly, you end up not finishing them in time and that will distory all your plan.

I thought about going to the office before 2pm and having meeting with Matt in the office. But when I received Matt's email, it's arleady 2:12pm and I still did not finish robotics work.

I could not finish my first piece of work by the time the second piece arrived. Any plan afterward would get ruined anway.


* The Root Cause & Remedy
------------------
The root cause of not estimating work properly is, as human being, we tend to over estimate ourselves. One common mistake is to use our best performance as regular performance.

How to fix this? Be ease to under estimate yourself.

Whenever someone ask you: can you get this done by next Monday? DONT RESPOND WITH YES/SURE/DEFINITELY.

One good answer is: I will try, I might need more time though.


* The Cost
------------------
The cost/problem is, when you don't give a firm answer, the other party might start to humiliate you by showing a death face or saying something like "oh, that I think is pretty easy, any undergrad with limit programming skill can finish it in 2 days". The situation might become complicated, difficult, and unpleasant.

And that's what usually happen in life.

But you really sholdn't lie to yourself for the purpose of making others happy.

The fact is, you can't control others. You want to be truthful to yourself and you always try your best, regardless whatever other people say or show.

You will become a better you anyway.



2. Why did it take a long time to figure out GPS/PPS or USBL NTP?
Today I was asking myself, why did it take me almost a day to make GPS/PPS work? For about half an hour, I could not recall the problem I encountered with GPS/PPS. I re-read a tutorial and it helped me to remember. The reason was that for PPS to work, there is a pin that should be connected to the raspberry pi. The pin was not connected because we didn't use PPS before.


I still could get GPS fix from /dev/ttyXXX, but PPS was not working. I initially thought it's a configuration problem. I spent a lot of time looking for a solution. Sombeody reported similar problems caused by configuration, and their solutions are just misleading. For my case, it was simply because of the pin. I got some wires out of nowhere and used the wires to connect the pin. When I isolated the problem and realized it's the pin problem, I tried different wires and made it work.

For the USBL NTP client configuration, I needed to access the USBL via browser interface or via ssh over Putty. The raspberry pi I installed doesn't have a GUI. My plan was to install ubuntu-desktop and then start firefox. However, not only the installation of ubuntu-desktop was time consuming, the firefox would just freeze after the installation. The CPU usage was constantly more than 100%.

I decided to install a light-weighted version of ubuntu on the raspberry pi. But I could only choose ubuntu 22 because that's the version for installing ROS2 in the system. I switched versions between ubuntu desktop/server/core. None of them worked (all freezed when opening firefox).

Later, I decided to go the ssh way (abandon the firefox way). When I ssh to the USBL modem, the connection got rejected because the modem was configured years ago and it used weaker encryption algorithms. I have to use a version of Putty to establish the connection.

The final solution is just install Xinit and Putty. Once 'startx', we launch putty and the connection would be established successfully. I don't really need to flash the raspberry pi. However, I already flashed one raspberry pi many times. This means I have to re-install ROS2 and configure it.


