10/03/2023
------------
1. Fixed the unsigned 32-bit integer field for the exercise science
project. Updated server and tested it. Thanks for the help from Matt
to push code to the server. 

2. Filled Andover MOAA forms for WZ to compete. Should prepare him for
it somehow. Which date? 

3. Finally get android app uploading local file to server
working. Need to address details later. 


10/04/2023
------------
1. Communication diagram for ROSNode <---> USBL.

2. Finished 4 items of the todo list of robotics: 1) no data
transmission if the fish is not in water; 2) adjust source level based
on RSSI; 3) initialized sync message from Top to Fish; 

3. Sent Glenn ACG/HEART_RATE/GYRO log files extracted from the pixel watch.

4. I finished robotics class at 3:35 pm. There were only 5 people in
the classroom (Monday 6 people). 

5. Sent another set of ACC/ACG/HEART_RATE/GYRO data to Glenn.

6. Changed server code to add url to handle android files uploading.


10/05/2023
------------
1. Start testing pixel watch for long logging hours. Probably will end
in the afternoon 3:30pm. 
2. Shoot email to Matt to schedule a 15min meeting to update the
server. 
3. I have an idea of reading "Element of Style by Strunk & White" and
program them in Python and use the python code to check my
writings. Maybe somebody already did this. 
4. I should read Stunk & White for about 5 pages per day. It's a shame
that I knew this book 20 years ago and I didn't read it thoroughly. 
5. Server code updated, but https requersting is not working with the
android app. Need to debug. 
6. Finished one meet at 4:00pm, and another one at 5:30pm.
7. Srihari gave feedback to me on my presence at the 3:00pm - 4:00pm
meeting. He gave me score 1 out of 10. Technically, I should say "I
will address the details later", instead of saying "I will address
that little details later". The main idea is: Think carefully, speak
clearly without yelling any garbage. 
8. I had reflection on being late.
9. It's 1:12am of Nov 6, I am not done with raspberry pi desktop
installation yet. Have to stop here and come back tomorrow. I don't
have wireless connection for the pi so i could only use my cell phone
hotspot. The past three hours only spent on updating the ubuntu 22
system, and not successful. I should move the whole setup to Ioannis's
lab. The only problem was i didn't want to carry the heavy equipment
there. I have to go there tomorrow anyway, sigh. 


10/06/2023
------------
1. Sent email to Michal about watch serial number; sent email to
Ioannis abotu assignment topic: underwater communication. 
2. Spent the whole day updating ubuntu for raspberry pi, the GUI seems
to heavy for the pi, when I started GUI the pi got freezed. CPU usage
above 90%. Have to check with GUI for raspberry pi carefully. 
3. Just realized that a minor change, which I though was a correction,
caused the server not accepting files. I came to public heath building
and tested my code with Fitbit watch and found the bug. I corrected it
and shot an email to Matt asking for updating server code. 
4. I am in awe finding out MOAA is tomorrow for William. I have to
prepare him for it tonight. 
5. Finished seminar at 3:10 pm. Quickly submitted my review. The
speaker is a new faculty in Quantum Computing. He didn't finish his
slides though. I am surprised he just finished half of his talk. 
6. I arrived at office around 10. I started to play with raspberry pi
until 1:30pm. I grabbed lunch at firehouse sub, and came back to
attend the seminar. I finished seminar and then wen to observe
sanjib's demo for vice dean. The demon was ended around 4pm and then I
went to public heath building to debug the fitbit uploading problem. I
fixed the issue then came back to robotics lab to find out the
raspberry pi was not able to run a heavy ubuntu-desktop application. I
realized that I had to go home to help William with math
preparation. I paid $10 for parking in the garage (10 hours). This was
my day. 


10/09/2023
------------
1. Meeting at 11:30am. Had class 2:20-3:35.
2. Done zooming matrix from 256x256 to 1001x1590, and saving the
matrix as an audio file. 

10/10/2023
------------
1. Obeserved sanjib's demo, gleen/bridgets/michael are visiting the
lab. 
2. 1:35am oct 11, 2023. Finally get raspberry pi flashed to ubuntu
server 22 with xinit installed. I go with Putty instead of firefox for
accessing the USBL modem. I spent a whole day on this trying different
versions of ubuntu (ubunto core requires ssh key when configure the
system -- but you dont even have access to the login shell). The GUI
with firefox browser way was not right, PuttY way is the right
choice. I turned on the modem's NTP service and set the modem's NTP
server address using the raspberry pi's ethernet ip address. Still
need to install ROS2, reconfigure GPS/Chrony. 


10/11/2023
------------
1. Had meeting with the robotics group; we are still understanding the
problem of underwater syncrhonization. Sent an email to evologics, and
got response that the USBL devices do not support underwater
synchronization through acoustic channels. Evologics suggested
synchronizing devices before sending the devices into the water. 
2. I had reflection on why it took me a long time to get GPS/PPS or
USBL NTP working. The answer mainly is that I am away from the Unix
system for too long; it took me a while to get familiar again. 
3. Attended Bahrat's PhD defense. One question from other professors
mentioned that he should put his tenical contribution as well (his
code). 
4. I tried to investigate sending https request in android app. I am
just too tired because I have caught a cold. Luckily, I found a
youtube video on how to program https request with android. I will
follow it tomorrow morning. 

  
10/12/2023
------------
1. Spent the whole morning to figure out the https request failure
problem, and finally found it's the SSL certificate of the server
can't be verified (it's issued by Let's Encrypt, which is not widely
recognized). The solution is turn of ssl verification in the Kotlin
code (Thanks to chatgpt). At about 2pm, I finally got the code
working. It successfully uploaded files to the server.
2. Had meeting with Glenn and Srihari.
3. I am almost recovered from the cold, still need to drink a lot of
warm water.
4. I need to write an email to tell the editor that I will be late for
submitting the review.


10/13/2023
------------
1. Happen to see some videos by ChessPage1 on youtube; the videos are
pleasant to watch. I am attracted by the videos because it speaks out
my opinions about studying chess openings: there are too many chess
opening to study and it's impossible to literally memeorizing every
step of them. The key strategy should be studying the fundamental game
plan: for example, conqure the center, attack the king side, and the
details (the usage of knight, the mission of the rook) of achieving
these purposes. I watched two amazing games of white using Ruby Lopez
and a game of black with Caro-Kann. The suggestion seems to be, as a
chess amateur, always use Ruby Lopz and Caro-Kann.

2. Just sent an email to the editor saying that I will submit the
review by next week.

3. Finished seminar at 3:15pm, also finished writing review in classroom. 
I could not find submission entrance coz the prof didn't put it online yet.
I had 3 hours teaching in the night till 12:10am. I forgot to submit the
Review before 11:59pm. The prof put it online around 8:30pm tho.

10/16/2023
-----------
1. Forgot to write snippet. So this is a makeup.
2. Spent whole morning working on mmwave project, got the dell laptop
working with tensorflow, found that tensor flow > 2.10 doesnt support
GPU on windows native system (I don't usually work on windows but I
am given a windows machine with a mmwave radar). There is a bug in my
matlab code converting spectrogram to audio, and sanjib helped me find
the bug.
3. Robotics class in the afternoon. ioannis requires us to write a
short summary for all the talks (3 talks in total).
4. Went grocery shopping and too tired to work. Still coughing a bit.


10/17/2023
-----------
1. The plan is to get GPU working on the windows machine and then go
to play raspberry pi, and continue reviewing the paper.
2. Spent almost the whole day configuring tensoflow with gpu working
on windows 11 WSL. The setting is working but the code complains. I
believe I thave to run the same version of code for under a CPU
setting and under a GPU setting concurrently to identify whether the
complain is a GPU-specific issue. Will continue later this week.
3. Have to go home and later come back to the robotics lab to work on
robotics. 
4. Installed ROS2 on both Top/Fish after configured NTP. The Fish
modem can't be accessed via ssh (access denied, not sure why). I
installed firefox and get it configured via web browser. Still need to
configure to make IMU/depth_sensor/GPS work.

10/18/2023
------------
1. Meeting at 10:00-11:30, 11:30-12:30, and had class during 2:20pm
-3:35pm. Spent some time fixing ubuntu booting, not chance testing ros
colcon build.
2. Investigating heart rate logs from android phone: timestamps are not
always increasing (both t_android and t_unix). Not sure why, need more
time to find out.


10/19/2023
------------
1. Forgot to write snippet. Spent most of time on reviewing ML
paper. I have to study CNN systematically in order to master the CNN
tool. Found some tutorials and will follow up.
2. Spent time with Tina on her math and science homework in the
night.

10/20/2023
-----------
1. The plan is to finish paper review.
2. Finished & submitted the review.


10/22/2023
-----------
1. Got two crappies today at Parr Reservoir Bridge.
2. Tried to install matlabengine on MacOS so that I can invoke matlab
code from python, not successful.
3. Fixed matlab code to generate 11 5-second sub-audios from a
10-second audio file. We generate the spectrogram of each sub-audio
and convert them back to audio. Verified that all audios generated
from spectrogram are good (can hear the content clearly). However, the
spectrogram dimension changed a bit, need to retrain with pix2pix.


* Reminder:
  1. robotics presentation review
  1. robotics assignment (due oct 30)
